Data could be in many places.
In most research environments, data are stored across a wide range of locations,
and often in an uncoordinated way.
They might be found on the laptops of students or postdocs,
making them vulnerable to loss or inaccessibility when people leave the lab.
They could be saved within an institute's internal network,
which may be secure but not always organized for long-term preservation or sharing.
Some data sets are stored in cloud services, such as Google Drive or Dropbox.
These platforms are convenient but not designed for structured research data management,
and may lack clear ownership or metadata.
Other data reside on high-performance computing, HPC, clusters,
which support large-scale processing but don't always offer user-friendly interfaces
for managing and sharing data sets.
This fragmentation makes it difficult to track, cure it, and preserve research data.
That's why centralized, well-curated repositories play such an important role in ensuring long-term access and reuse.